Add Getting Started tutorials (#2808)
surveyjs/survey-creator: docs/get-started-knockout-jquery.md

# Add Survey Creator / Form Builder to a Knockout or jQuery Application

This step-by-step tutorial will help you get started with the [Survey Creator](https://surveyjs.io/create-survey) component in a Knockout or jQuery application. To add Survey Creator to your application, follow the steps below:

- [Link Resources](#link-resources)
- [Configure Survey Creator](#configure-survey-creator)
- [Render Survey Creator](#render-survey-creator)
- [Save and Load Survey Model Definitions](#save-and-load-survey-model-definitions)

Survey Creator is powered by Knockout and does not have an individual implementation for jQuery. However, you can integrate the version for Knockout into your jQuery application by following the same instructions.

You can find the full code for this tutorial in the following GitHub repository: <a href="https://github.com/surveyjs/code-examples/tree/main/get-started-creator-knockout" target="_blank">Get Started with Survey Creator / Form Builder - Knockout</a>.

## Link Resources

> Survey Creator for Knockout consists of two parts: `survey-creator-core` (platform-independent code) and `survey-creator-knockout` (view models). They include style sheets and scripts. Insert links to these resources within the `<head>` tag on your HTML page as shown below.

Reviewer: Not sure if "They" in the second sentence refers to "two parts" or "view models". I think the first is true, but some degree of confusion is possible. 

```suggestion
Survey Creator for Knockout consists of two parts: `survey-creator-core` (platform-independent code) and `survey-creator-knockout` (view models). Each part includes style sheets and scripts. Insert links to these resources within the `<head>` tag on your HTML page as shown below.
```

> Survey Creator also requires SurveyJS resources. Link them _after_ the Knockout library, but _before_ the Survey Creator resources. Note that although SurveyJS supports [different UI themes](https://surveyjs.io/Documentation/Library?id=get-started-knockout#link-surveyjs-resources), Survey Creator can use only the Default V2 theme:

Reviewer: I left a comment about "only the Default V2 theme" part in the topic about Angular.

```

<details>
    <summary>View full code</summary>  

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
    <title>Survey Creator for Knockout</title>
    <meta charset="utf-8">
    <script type="text/javascript" src="https://unpkg.com/knockout/build/output/knockout-latest.js"></script>

    <link  href="https://unpkg.com/survey-core/defaultV2.min.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet">
    <script src="https://unpkg.com/survey-core/survey.core.min.js"></script>
    <script src="https://unpkg.com/survey-knockout-ui/survey-knockout-ui.min.js"></script>
    
    <link  href="https://unpkg.com/survey-creator-core/survey-creator-core.min.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet">
    <script src="https://unpkg.com/survey-creator-core/survey-creator-core.min.js"></script>
    <script src="https://unpkg.com/survey-creator-knockout/survey-creator-knockout.min.js"></script>

    <script type="text/javascript" src="index.js"></script>
</head>
<body>

</body>
</html>
```

```js
const creatorOptions = {
    showLogicTab: true,
    isAutoSave: true
};

const creator = new SurveyCreator.SurveyCreator(creatorOptions);
```
</details> 

## Render Survey Creator

> Survey Creator should be rendered in a page element. Add this element to your page:

Reviewer: I left a comment for a similar paragraph in the Angular topic.

```html
<body>
    <div id="surveyCreator" style="height: 100vh;"></div>
</body>
```

> To render Survey Creator in the page element, call the `render(containerId)` method on the Survey Creator instance you created in the previous step:

Reviewer 2: See my similar comment in the Angular topic.

    <meta charset="utf-8">
    <script type="text/javascript" src="https://unpkg.com/knockout/build/output/knockout-latest.js"></script>

    <link  href="https://unpkg.com/survey-core/defaultV2.min.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet">
    <script src="https://unpkg.com/survey-core/survey.core.min.js"></script>
    <script src="https://unpkg.com/survey-knockout-ui/survey-knockout-ui.min.js"></script>
    
    <link  href="https://unpkg.com/survey-creator-core/survey-creator-core.min.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet">
    <script src="https://unpkg.com/survey-creator-core/survey-creator-core.min.js"></script>
    <script src="https://unpkg.com/survey-creator-knockout/survey-creator-knockout.min.js"></script>

    <script type="text/javascript" src="index.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
    <div id="surveyCreator" style="height: 100vh;"></div>
</body>
</html>
```

```js
const creatorOptions = {
    showLogicTab: true,
    isAutoSave: true
};

const creator = new SurveyCreator.SurveyCreator(creatorOptions);

document.addEventListener("DOMContentLoaded", function() {
    creator.render("surveyCreator");
});
```
</details>

## Save and Load Survey Model Definitions

> Survey Creator is designed to produce survey model definitions as JSON objects. You can save these objects on your server and load them from it. To save a JSON object, implement the `saveSurveyFunc` function. It accepts two arguments:

Reviewer: I commented on a similar paragraph in the Angular topic.

The following code shows how to use the `saveSurveyFunc` function to save a survey model definition in a <a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/localStorage" target="_blank">`localStorage`</a> or in your web service:

```js
creator.saveSurveyFunc = (saveNo, callback) => {
    // If you use localStorage:
    window.localStorage.setItem("survey-json", creator.text);
    callback(saveNo, true);

    // If you use a web service:
    saveSurveyJson(
        "https://your-web-service.com/",
        creator.JSON,
        saveNo,
        callback
    );
};

// If you use a web service:
function saveSurveyJson(url, json, saveNo, callback) {
    const request = new XMLHttpRequest();
    request.open('POST', url);
    request.setRequestHeader('Content-Type', 'application/json;charset=UTF-8');
    request.addEventListener('load', () => {
        callback(saveNo, true);
    });
    request.addEventListener('error', () => {
        callback(saveNo, false);
    });
    request.send(JSON.stringify(json));
}
```

> To load a survey model definition JSON into Survey Creator, assign the definition to Survey Creator's [`JSON`](https://surveyjs.io/Documentation/Survey-Creator?id=surveycreator#JSON) or [`text`](https://surveyjs.io/Documentation/Survey-Creator?id=surveycreator#text) property. Use `text` if the JSON object is converted to string; otherwise, use `JSON`. The following code takes a survey model definition from the `localStorage`. If the definition is not found (for example, when Survey Creator is launched for the first time), a default JSON is used:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To load a survey model definition JSON into Survey Creator, assign the definition to Survey Creator's [`JSON`](https://surveyjs.io/Documentation/Survey-Creator?id=surveycreator#JSON) or [`text`](https://surveyjs.io/Documentation/Survey-Creator?id=surveycreator#text) property. Use `text` if the JSON object is converted to a string; otherwise, use `JSON`. The following code takes a survey model definition from the `localStorage`. If the definition is not found (for example, when Survey Creator is launched for the first time), a default JSON is used:
```
